## model files

**GDS & GDSII**
  - Graphic Data System , is a database file format which is the de facto industry standard for data exchange of integrated circuit or IC layout artwork. It is a binary file format representing planar geometric shapes, text labels, and other information about the layout in hierarchical form.
**Gauge File**
  a file of many actual wafer points measurement results, which include name, location, Wafer_CD and so on. 

## tachyon product

**MPT**: Multiple Process Tool
  - not multiple patterning technology here
  - *and*, *or* operator applied on the model process
  - e.g., for LMC, compare two model, C2C

##model terminology

**Arieal Image**   
- ideal image in a image plane

**plot_CD** 
  I find that, when gauge is dense  , plot_CD = pitch ; when gauge is isolated, plot_CD=0

**draw_CD**
  main feature CD　of the Gauge, 

**wafer_CD**
  - Measured CD from actual wafer.

**Model_CD**
  - the simulated CD generated by FEM+ model

**AI_CD**
  - the simulated CD on AI contour

**NTD**
  - positive tone development (PTD)

**PTD**
  (more explicitly, it different from the Negative Resist in 70s last century)
  - negative tone development (NTD) 

**Mask Blur**
  - (P78, confused , suddenly coming out a "mask corner rounding", when I expect more details about "mask blur" related physical mask making effect)
  - defined as the sigma of the Gaussian filter applied to the mask image, simulating mask making effect, etc.

**Mask Bias**
  - in "Detail Properties" Pane 
    - a constant value described the extent of the polygon regions enlarge or shrink
  - in M3D  (P284)
    - For a bright-field mask, the bias direction is identical to the Mask Bias definition in the TNP Advanced Setting dialog box.
    - For a dark-field mask, a positive bias direction corresponds to shrunken polygon regions, and a negative bias value corresponds to enlarged polygon regions, which is the opposite of the Mask Bias definition in the TNP Advanced Setting dialog box.

**Mask Corner Rounding**
  - define the rounding radial in wafer level

**Smart Rounding**
  - 'None' means disabled
  - 'type_1' means enabled (ambiguous Combo Box naming)
  - avoid applying too big rounding around small jogs

**Jog**
  
**EL**
  - Exposure Latitude
  
**DOF**
  - Depth of Focus
  
**ct**
  - threshold of AI Image (but how to decide the value)
  
**thresh**
  - threshold of RI Image
  
**theta**
  - normalized AI RI to the same scale (0, 1)
  - model without truncation term , e.g., only A term, then AI-ct -> 0 , RI - thres ->0
  - mode with truncation term, e.g., only Ap Term, then AI-ct-> 0 , RI - thresh - bo\*ct, if we want to keep invariant RI(AI=0) = 0, *theta* must be added into RT, then when `AI = A - ct = 0` , we can get `RI = R - thres - b0*ct + theta = 0` 
  
**Parameterized Source** 

**PFM Source**              
  - Pupil Fit Model 

**DOE**   
  - diffractive Optical Element, such as DOE name = "Multipole-4-40-X –Gen2" ,i.e ,   a DOE name mapping to a DOE ID , this decide the Shape and all the fitting parameter of the source.
  
**GRAIL**  
  - Generation of Realistic Aerial Illuminator pupil. load a predicted source map that is very close to real source map
  
**Geom Map** 
  -acronyms of 'geometry map', describing the geometry information of SEM image

**NXE** 
  - such as  NXE:3300B stepper , uses 13.5 nm EUV light generated by very hot tin. ASML's EUVL stepper series name

inner smear
outer smear
inner sigma
outer sigma

