current figure handle

## MATLAB plot objects

1. `gcf`, `clf`

    h = gcf returns the handle of the current figure

    `clf` Clear current figure window, deletes from the current figure all graphics objects whose handles are not hidden

    ```MATLAB
    header = sprintf('gauge: %s', gaugename);
    figure(1); set(gcf,'Name',header); clf(); hold on;
    ```

    [Automatically maximize figure in Matlab](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/15286458/automatically-maximize-figure-in-matlab?lq=1)

    ```MATLAB
    set(gcf,'units','normalized','outerposition',[0 0 1 1])
    screen_size = get(0, 'ScreenSize');
    monitor1_size = [1366, 768];
    set(gcf, 'Position', [monitor1_size(1) screen_size(4) screen_size(3)-monitor1_size(1) screen_size(4)-40 ] );
    ```

    Position — Location and size of figure's drawable area
    [left bottom width height]

2. `gca`
 
- axis
- xlabel
- title
- xtick
- xticklabel

 `set(gca,'XTickMode','auto','XTickLabel',{'peak diff', 'normalized step'}, 'XTick',1:2)`
    
2. image pre-process

    `B = imrotate(A,angle,method,bbox)`

    `SE = strel('diamond', R)` 

    self defined function

    `SE = strel('diamond', X_period, Y_period)` 

3. `ginput`: raises crosshairs in the current axes to for you to identify points in the figure

    [x, y] = ginput(3)

    The output of  `ginput(3)` is:

    x1, y1
    x2, y2
    x3, y3

    x = [x1; x2; x3] 3X1 vector
    y = [y1; y2; y3] 3X1 vector

4. `plot`: 

    >**Note**: A very basic fact in MATLAB image is, x=column, y =row. Inside of a image, top left point is the origin point. But in the axis system, left bottom point is the origin point.

    Then a basis usage of image should be:

    ```MATLAB
    [height, width] = size(I); % size also return rowXcolumn, then height must come first.
    ```


    plot(X1,Y1,...,Xn,Yn) plots each vector Yn versus vector Xn on the same axes. 

    so when `ginput` output is used for plot, use `x` `y` vector is better than `points`

    [How do I add two lines using GINPUT to an image](http://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/answers/93657-how-do-i-add-two-lines-using-ginput-to-an-image-in-matlab-7-10-r2010a)

5. `imagesc`: Scale data and display image object
6. `rect`: usually, we will use rect to crop a image. `rect` in MATLAB represent as *[xmin ymin width height]*, but the actual top-left corner and bottom-right corner is:
    - top-left point: *(xmin, ymin)*
    - bottom-right corner: *(xmin+width, ymin+height)*
    - so the size of image will be: *(height+1) X (width+1)*

    i.e., if you want to crop a *height X width* image, the correct `rect` should be *rect=[xmin ymin width-1 height-1]*



[Image Types](http://nl.mathworks.com/help/matlab/creating_plots/image-types.html)

1. Indexed Images:
    
    An indexed image consists of a data matrix, `X`, and a colormap matrix, `map`. `map` is an m-by-3 array of class double containing floating-point values in the range [0, 1]. Each row of `map` specifies the red, green, and blue components of a single color. An indexed image uses "direct mapping" of pixel values to colormap values.

    Display the image:

    `image(X); colormap(map)`

2. Intensity Images/ grayscale Images
    
    An intensity image is a data matrix, `I`, whose values represent intensities within some range. An intensity image is represented as a single matrix, with each element of the matrix corresponding to one image pixel. The matrix can be of class *double*, *uint8*, or *uint16*. While intensity images are rarely saved with a colormap, a colormap is still used to display them. In essence, handles intensity images are treated as indexed images.

    To display an intensity image, use the `imagesc` ("image scale") function, which enables you to set the range of intensity values. 

    `imagesc(...,clims)`:  normalizes the values in `I` to the range specified by `clims` and displays `I` as an image. `clims` is a two-element vector that limits the range of data values in `I`. These values map to the full range of values in the current colormap.

    `clims`: color limits

    You can expand midrange color resolution by mapping low values to the first color and high values to the last color in the colormap by specifying color value limits (`clims`). If the size of the current colormap is _[max(I(:)) - min(I(:))]*3_ , the statements:

    ```MATLAB
    clims = [10 60]; 
    imagesc(X,clims)
    colormap(gray)
    axis image
    title('clims = [10 60]') 
    ```

    Note, `colormap` is changeable, e.g., statement `colormap(winter)`  display the intensity image `I` in shades of blue and green.


    More explanation about display grayscale images are given below.

    1. grayscale images
        
        To display a grayscale image, call the `imshow` function or open the Image Viewer app. 

        - If I is double, a pixel value of 0.0 is displayed as black, a pixel value of 1.0 is displayed as white, and pixel values in between are displayed as shades of gray. 
        - If I is uint8, then a pixel value of 255 is displayed as white. 
        - If I is uint16, then a pixel value of 65535 is displayed as white.
        
        Grayscale images are similar to indexed images in that each uses an *m-by-3* RGB `colormap`, but you normally do not specify a colormap for a grayscale image. MATLAB® displays grayscale images by using a grayscale system colormap (where R=G=B). By default, the number of levels of gray in the colormap is 256 on systems with 24-bit color, and 64 or 32 on other systems. Here the color bit, is *the number of bits per screen pixel* determines the display's *screen bit depth*. The *screen bit depth* determines the *screen color resolution*, which is how many distinct colors the display can produce[3](http://nl.mathworks.com/help/images/displaying-colors.html).

        Display the range of grayscale image.

        ```MATLAB
        I = imread('testpat1.png');
        J = filter2([1 2;-1 -2],I);
        imtool(J,'DisplayRange',[]);
        ```

        Displays the grayscale image `I`, specifying the display range for I in *[low high]*. The value low (and any value less than low) displays as black; the value high (and any value greater than high) displays as white. Values in between are displayed as intermediate shades of gray, using the default number of gray levels. If you use an empty matrix ([]) for [low high], imshow uses [min(I(:)) max(I(:))]; that is, the minimum value in I is displayed as black, and the maximum value is displayed as white.

        ```MATLAB
        imshow(I,[low high]);
        imshow(I, [])
        ```

    2. Binary image.(i.e., BW, black white)

        In MATLAB, a binary image is of class *logical*. Binary images contain only 0's and 1's. Pixels with the value 0 are displayed as black; pixels with the value 1 are displayed as white.

        >> **Note**: For the toolbox to interpret the image as binary, it must be of class logical. Grayscale images that happen to contain only 0's and 1's are not binary images.


3. RGB (Truecolor) Images

    An RGB image, sometimes referred to as a *truecolor* image, is stored as an *m-by-n-by-3* data array that defines red, green, and blue color components for each individual pixel. RGB images do not use a palette. Graphics file formats store RGB images as 24-bit images, where the red, green, and blue components are 8 bits each. An RGB MATLAB® array can be of class double, uint8, or uint16.

    To display the truecolor image RGB, use the image function:

    `image(RGB)`




Reference

1. [Image Types](http://nl.mathworks.com/help/matlab/creating_plots/image-types.html)
2. [Display Different Image Types](http://nl.mathworks.com/help/images/displaying-different-image-types.html)
3. [Displaying Colors](http://nl.mathworks.com/help/images/displaying-colors.html).